# MODEL1006230004: Chen2000_CellCycle

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230004.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/MODEL1006230004.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


This a model from the article:  
**Kinetic analysis of a molecular model of the budding yeast cell cycle.**   
Chen KC, Csikasz-Nagy A, Gyorffy B, Val J, Novak B, Tyson JJ. _Mol Biol Cell_
2000 Jan;11(1):369-91 [10637314](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/10637314)
,  
**Abstract:**   
The molecular machinery of cell cycle control is known in more detail for
budding yeast, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, than for any other eukaryotic
organism. In recent years, many elegant experiments on budding yeast have
dissected the roles of cyclin molecules (Cln1-3 and Clb1-6) in coordinating
the events of DNA synthesis, bud emergence, spindle formation, nuclear
division, and cell separation. These experimental clues suggest a mechanism
for the principal molecular interactions controlling cyclin synthesis and
degradation. Using standard techniques of biochemical kinetics, we convert the
mechanism into a set of differential equations, which describe the time
courses of three major classes of cyclin-dependent kinase activities. Model in
hand, we examine the molecular events controlling "Start" (the commitment step
to a new round of chromosome replication, bud formation, and mitosis) and
"Finish" (the transition from metaphase to anaphase, when sister chromatids
are pulled apart and the bud separates from the mother cell) in wild-type
cells and 50 mutants. The model accounts for many details of the physiology,
biochemistry, and genetics of cell cycle control in budding yeast.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Chen KC, Csikasz-Nagy A, Gyorffy B, Val J, Novak
B, Tyson JJ. (2000) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/8502bac4a83d9faaaa57edd9f682acfa)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Catherine Lloyd**   
c.lloyd@auckland.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)


